hello and welcome to videojug we're
going to show you how to make falafel a
traditional Middle Eastern dish step one
you will need the following ingredients
to serve four people 250 grams of
chickpeas 3 cloves of garlic chopped a
handful of parsley chopped a handful of
coriander chopped 1 chili chopped 2
tablespoons of flour 3/4 of a teaspoon
of baking soda 1 teaspoon of cumin 1
teaspoon of crushed coriander seeds 1
liter of vegetable oil and salt and
pepper
and here is a quick summary of the
ingredients
you will also need the following
utensils a blender or food processor two
bowls a spoon a tray a slotted spoon
some paper towel and a saucepan
step two take a large bowl and put in
the chickpeas then pour over enough
water to cover the chickpeas and an
additional 2 centimeters more leave to
soak overnight
in the morning they will look plump and
swollen
step3 drain and puree the chickpeas hold
the chickpeas over the sink and drain
off the water with your hand over the
bowl now spoon the chickpeas into the
blender Bowl don't overfill the blender
the chef is using a small food blender
so he will have to do it in batches if
you have a bigger mixer you can do it
all at once close the blender and pulse
a couple of times then blend on full
power until you create a bread crumb
like mixture check the consistency by
stirring with a spoon if necessary blend
again on full power until you create a
fine puree then transfer into a bowl
step 4 puree the other ingredients
introduce the parsley coriander
chilli
garlic
along with two tablespoons of the puree
chickpeas into the bowl of the blender
put the lid on
and blend until well combined
Step five mix and season spoon the
blended mixture into the bowl of pureed
chickpeas then add the flour
the cumin
the crushed coriander seeds the baking
soda
and about one-and-a-half tablespoons of
salt finally add some pepper combine it
all together thoroughly with a spoon if
it looks too dry a few drops of water
can be added step 6
preheat the oil place the saucepan on
the hob and add the oil
then heat it up on a medium to high
setting
step 7 make the falafel balls take a
small amount of the blended mixture in
your fingertips and mold it into small
balls then place onto a baking tray this
amount of ingredients should make around
25 to 30 balls kept covered this mixture
will keep for one day in the fridge step
fry the falafel balls the oil should now
be hot enough to fry so individually
spoon half the batch of falafel balls
into the oil
allow to fry for 2 minutes until
golden-brown stirring with a slotted
spoon so they Brown evenly
then remove and drain on a tray prepared
with some kitchen towel now repeat the
process with the remaining falafel balls
step 9
serve the falafel balls are now ready
they are usually served inside pita
bread with tahini hummus or chopped
salad this is a very filling vegetarian
dish perfect as a starter main course or
just a snack and that's how to make
falafel the videojug way